Weblate 1.x series
------------------

Weblate 1.9
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on May 6th 2014.

* Django 1.6 compatibility.
* No longer maintained compatibility with Django 1.4.
* Management commands for locking/unlocking translations.
* Improved support for Qt TS files.
* Users can now delete their account.
* Avatars can be disabled.
* Merged first and last name attributes.
* Avatars are now fetched and cached server side.
* Added support for shields.io badge.

Weblate 1.8
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on November 7th 2013.

* Please check manual for upgrade instructions.
* Nicer listing of project summary.
* Better visible options for sharing.
* More control over anonymous users privileges.
* Supports login using third party services, check manual for more details.
* Users can login by e-mail instead of username.
* Documentation improvements.
* Improved source strings review.
* Searching across all strings.
* Better tracking of source strings.
* Captcha protection for registration.

Weblate 1.7
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on October 7th 2013.

* Please check manual for upgrade instructions.
* Support for checking Python brace format string.
* Per component customization of quality checks.
* Detailed per translation stats.
* Changed way of linking suggestions, checks and comments to strings.
* Users can now add text to commit message.
* Support for subscribing on new language requests.
* Support for adding new translations.
* Widgets and charts are now rendered using Pillow instead of Pango + Cairo.
* Add status badge widget.
* Dropped invalid text direction check.
* Changes in dictionary are now logged in history.
* Performance improvements for translation view.

Weblate 1.6
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on July 25th 2013.

* Nicer error handling on registration.
* Browsing of changes.
* Fixed sorting of machine translation suggestions.
* Improved support for MyMemory machine translation.
* Added support for Amagama machine translation.
* Various optimizations on frequently used pages.
* Highlights searched phrase in search results.
* Support for automatic fixups while saving the message.
* Tracking of translation history and option to revert it.
* Added support for Google Translate API.
* Added support for managing SSH host keys.
* Various form validation improvements.
* Various quality checks improvements.
* Performance improvements for import.
* Added support for voting on suggestions.
* Cleanup of admin interface.

Weblate 1.5
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on April 16th 2013.

* Please check manual for upgrade instructions.
* Added public user pages.
* Better naming of plural forms.
* Added support for TBX export of glossary.
* Added support for Bitbucket notifications.
* Activity charts are now available for each translation, language or user.
* Extended options of import_project admin command.
* Compatible with Django 1.5.
* Avatars are now shown using libravatar.
* Added possibility to pretty print JSON export.
* Various performance improvements.
* Indicate failing checks or fuzzy strings in progress bars for projects or languages as well.
* Added support for custom pre-commit hooks and committing additional files.
* Rewritten search for better performance and user experience.
* New interface for machine translations.
* Added support for monolingual po files.
* Extend amount of cached metadata to improve speed of various searches.
* Now shows word counts as well.

Weblate 1.4
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on January 23rd 2013.

* Fixed deleting of checks/comments on string deletion.
* Added option to disable automatic propagation of translations.
* Added option to subscribe for merge failures.
* Correctly import on projects which needs custom ttkit loader.
* Added sitemaps to allow easier access by crawlers.
* Provide direct links to string in notification e-mails or feeds.
* Various improvements to admin interface.
* Provide hints for production setup in admin interface.
* Added per language widgets and engage page.
* Improved translation locking handling.
* Show code snippets for widgets in more variants.
* Indicate failing checks or fuzzy strings in progress bars.
* More options for formatting commit message.
* Fixed error handling with machine translation services.
* Improved automatic translation locking behaviour.
* Support for showing changes from previous source string.
* Added support for substring search.
* Various quality checks improvements.
* Support for per project ACL.
* Basic code coverage by unit tests.

Weblate 1.3
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on November 16th 2012.

* Compatibility with PostgreSQL database backend.
* Removes languages removed in upstream git repository.
* Improved quality checks processing.
* Added new checks (BBCode, XML markup and newlines).
* Support for optional rebasing instead of merge.
* Possibility to relocate Weblate (for example to run it under /weblate path).
* Support for manually choosing file type in case autodetection fails.
* Better support for Android resources.
* Support for generating SSH key from web interface.
* More visible data exports.
* New buttons to enter some special characters.
* Support for exporting dictionary.
* Support for locking down whole Weblate installation.
* Checks for source strings and support for source strings review.
* Support for user comments for both translations and source strings.
* Better changes log tracking.
* Changes can now be monitored using RSS.
* Improved support for RTL languages.

Weblate 1.2
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on August 14th 2012.

* Weblate now uses South for database migration, please check upgrade instructions if you are upgrading.
* Fixed minor issues with linked git repos.
* New introduction page for engaging people with translating using Weblate.
* Added widgets which can be used for promoting translation projects.
* Added option to reset repository to origin (for privileged users).
* Project or component can now be locked for translations.
* Possibility to disable some translations.
* Configurable options for adding new translations.
* Configuration of git commits per project.
* Simple antispam protection.
* Better layout of main page.
* Support for automatically pushing changes on every commit.
* Support for e-mail notifications of translators.
* List only used languages in preferences.
* Improved handling of not known languages when importing project.
* Support for locking translation by translator.
* Optionally maintain ``Language-Team`` header in po file.
* Include some statistics in about page.
* Supports (and requires) django-registration 0.8.
* Caching counts of strings with failing checks.
* Checking of requirements during setup.
* Documentation improvements.

Weblate 1.1
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on July 4th 2012.

* Improved several translations.
* Better validation while creating component.
* Added support for shared git repositories across components.
* Do not necessary commit on every attempt to pull remote repo.
* Added support for offloading indexing.

Weblate 1.0
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on May 10th 2012.

* Improved validation while adding/saving component.
* Experimental support for Android component files (needs patched ttkit).
* Updates from hooks are run in background.
* Improved installation instructions.
* Improved navigation in dictionary.
