Weblate 2.x series
------------------

Weblate 2.20
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on April 4th 2018.

* Improved speed of cloning subversion repositories.
* Changed repository locking to use third party library.
* Added support for downloading only strings needing action.
* Added support for searching in several languages at once.
* New add-on to configure gettext output wrapping.
* New add-on to configure JSON formatting.
* Added support for authentication in API using RFC 6750 compatible Bearer authentication.
* Added support for automatic translation using machine translation services.
* Added support for HTML markup in whiteboard messages.
* Added support for mass changing state of strings.
* Translate-toolkit at least 2.3.0 is now required, older versions are no longer supported.
* Added built-in translation memory.
* Added componentlists overview to dashboard and per component list overview pages.
* Added support for DeepL machine translation service.
* Machine translation results are now cached inside Weblate.
* Added support for reordering committed changes.

Weblate 2.19.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on February 20th 2018.

* Fixed migration issue on upgrade from 2.18.
* Improved file upload API validation.

Weblate 2.19
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on February 15th 2018.

* Fixed imports across some file formats.
* Display human friendly browser information in audit log.
* Added TMX exporter for files.
* Various performance improvements for loading translation files.
* Added option to disable access management in Weblate in favor of Django one.
* Improved glossary lookup speed for large strings.
* Compatibility with django_auth_ldap 1.3.0.
* Configuration errors are now stored and reported persistently.
* Honor ignore flags in whitespace autofixer.
* Improved compatibility with some Subversion setups.
* Improved built-in machine translation service.
* Added support for SAP Translation Hub service.
* Added support for Microsoft Terminology service.
* Removed support for advertisement in notification e-mails.
* Improved translation progress reporting at language level.
* Improved support for different plural formulas.
* Added support for Subversion repositories not using stdlayout.
* Added add-ons to customize translation workflows.

Weblate 2.18
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on December 15th 2017.

* Extended contributor stats.
* Improved configuration of special characters virtual keyboard.
* Added support for DTD file format.
* Changed keyboard shortcuts to less likely collide with browser/system ones.
* Improved support for approved flag in XLIFF files.
* Added support for not wrapping long strings in gettext PO files.
* Added button to copy permalink for current translation.
* Dropped support for Django 1.10 and added support for Django 2.0.
* Removed locking of translations while translating.
* Added support for adding new strings to monolingual translations.
* Added support for translation workflows with dedicated reviewers.

Weblate 2.17.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on October 13th 2017.

* Fixed running testsuite in some specific situations.
* Locales updates.

Weblate 2.17
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on October 13th 2017.

* Weblate by default does shallow Git clones now.
* Improved performance when updating large translation files.
* Added support for blocking certain e-mails from registration.
* Users can now delete their own comments.
* Added preview step to search and replace feature.
* Client side persistence of settings in search and upload forms.
* Extended search capabilities.
* More fine grained per project ACL configuration.
* Default value of BASE_DIR has been changed.
* Added two step account removal to prevent accidental removal.
* Project access control settings is now editable.
* Added optional spam protection for suggestions using Akismet.

Weblate 2.16
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on August 11th 2017.

* Various performance improvements.
* Added support for nested JSON format.
* Added support for WebExtension JSON format.
* Fixed git exporter authentication.
* Improved CSV import in certain situations.
* Improved look of Other translations widget.
* The max-length checks is now enforcing length of text in form.
* Make the commit_pending age configurable per component.
* Various user interface cleanups.
* Fixed component/project/site wide search for translations.

Weblate 2.15
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on June 30th 2017.

* Show more related translations in other translations.
* Add option to see translations of current string to other languages.
* Use 4 plural forms for Lithuanian by default.
* Fixed upload for monolingual files of different format.
* Improved error messages on failed authentication.
* Keep page state when removing word from glossary.
* Added direct link to edit secondary language translation.
* Added Perl format quality check.
* Added support for rejecting reused passwords.
* Extended toolbar for editing RTL languages.

Weblate 2.14.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on May 24th 2017.

* Fixed possible error when paginating search results.
* Fixed migrations from older versions in some corner cases.
* Fixed possible CSRF on project watch and unwatch.
* The password reset no longer authenticates user.
* Fixed possible CAPTCHA bypass on forgotten password.

Weblate 2.14
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on May 17th 2017.

* Add glossary entries using AJAX.
* The logout now uses POST to avoid CSRF.
* The API key token reset now uses POST to avoid CSRF.
* Weblate sets Content-Security-Policy by default.
* The local editor URL is validated to avoid self-XSS.
* The password is now validated against common flaws by default.
* Notify users about important activity with their account such as password change.
* The CSV exports now escape potential formulas.
* Various minor improvements in security.
* The authentication attempts are now rate limited.
* Suggestion content is stored in the history.
* Store important account activity in audit log.
* Ask for password confirmation when removing account or adding new associations.
* Show time when suggestion has been made.
* There is new quality check for trailing semicolon.
* Ensure that search links can be shared.
* Included source string information and screenshots in the API.
* Allow to overwrite translations through API upload.

Weblate 2.13.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Apr 12th 2017.

* Fixed listing of managed projects in profile.
* Fixed migration issue where some permissions were missing.
* Fixed listing of current file format in translation download.
* Return HTTP 404 when trying to access project where user lacks privileges.

Weblate 2.13
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Apr 12th 2017.

* Fixed quality checks on translation templates.
* Added quality check to trigger on losing translation.
* Add option to view pending suggestions from user.
* Add option to automatically build component lists.
* Default dashboard for unauthenticated users can be configured.
* Add option to browse 25 random strings for review.
* History now indicates string change.
* Better error reporting when adding new translation.
* Added per language search within project.
* Group ACLs can now be limited to certain permissions.
* The per project ACLs are now implemented using Group ACL.
* Added more fine grained privileges control.
* Various minor UI improvements.

Weblate 2.12
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Mar 3rd 2017.

* Improved admin interface for groups.
* Added support for Yandex Translate API.
* Improved speed of site wide search.
* Added project and component wide search.
* Added project and component wide search and replace.
* Improved rendering of inconsistent translations.
* Added support for opening source files in local editor.
* Added support for configuring visual keyboard with special characters.
* Improved screenshot management with OCR support for matching source strings.
* Default commit message now includes translation information and URL.
* Added support for Joomla translation format.
* Improved reliability of import across file formats.

Weblate 2.11
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Jan 31st 2017.

* Include language detailed information on language page.
* Mercurial backend improvements.
* Added option to specify translation component priority.
* More consistent usage of Group ACL even with less used permissions.
* Added WL_BRANCH variable to hook scripts.
* Improved developer documentation.
* Better compatibility with various Git versions in Git exporter add-on.
* Included per project and component stats.
* Added language code mapping for better support of Microsoft Translate API.
* Moved fulltext cleanup to background job to make translation removal faster.
* Fixed displaying of plural source for languages with single plural form.
* Improved error handling in import_project.
* Various performance improvements.

Weblate 2.10.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Jan 20th 2017.

* Do not leak account existence on password reset form (CVE-2017-5537).

Weblate 2.10
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Dec 15th 2016.

* Added quality check to check whether plurals are translated differently.
* Fixed GitHub hooks for repositories with authentication.
* Added optional Git exporter module.
* Support for Microsoft Cognitive Services Translator API.
* Simplified project and component user interface.
* Added automatic fix to remove control characters.
* Added per language overview to project.
* Added support for CSV export.
* Added CSV download for stats.
* Added matrix view for quick overview of all translations.
* Added basic API for changes and strings.
* Added support for Apertium APy server for machine translations.

Weblate 2.9
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Nov 4th 2016.

* Extended parameters for createadmin management command.
* Extended import_json to be able to handle with existing components.
* Added support for YAML files.
* Project owners can now configure translation component and project details.
* Use "Watched" instead of "Subscribed" projects.
* Projects can be watched directly from project page.
* Added multi language status widget.
* Highlight secondary language if not showing source.
* Record suggestion deletion in history.
* Improved UX of languages selection in profile.
* Fixed showing whiteboard messages for component.
* Keep preferences tab selected after saving.
* Show source string comment more prominently.
* Automatically install Gettext PO merge driver for Git repositories.
* Added search and replace feature.
* Added support for uploading visual context (screenshots) for translations.

Weblate 2.8
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Aug 31st 2016.

* Documentation improvements.
* Translations.
* Updated bundled JavaScript libraries.
* Added list_translators management command.
* Django 1.8 is no longer supported.
* Fixed compatibility with Django 1.10.
* Added Subversion support.
* Separated XML validity check from XML mismatched tags.
* Fixed API to honor HIDE_REPO_CREDENTIALS settings.
* Show source change in Zen mode.
* Alt+PageUp/PageDown/Home/End now works in Zen mode as well.
* Add tooltip showing exact time of changes.
* Add option to select filters and search from translation page.
* Added UI for translation removal.
* Improved behavior when inserting placeables.
* Fixed auto locking issues in Zen mode.

Weblate 2.7
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Jul 10th 2016.

* Removed Google web translate machine translation.
* Improved commit message when adding translation.
* Fixed Google Translate API for Hebrew language.
* Compatibility with Mercurial 3.8.
* Added import_json management command.
* Correct ordering of listed translations.
* Show full suggestion text, not only a diff.
* Extend API (detailed repository status, statistics, …).
* Testsuite no longer requires network access to test repositories.

Weblate 2.6
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Apr 28th 2016.

* Fixed validation of components with language filter.
* Improved support for XLIFF files.
* Fixed machine translation for non English sources.
* Added REST API.
* Django 1.10 compatibility.
* Added categories to whiteboard messages.

Weblate 2.5
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Mar 10th 2016.

* Fixed automatic translation for project owners.
* Improved performance of commit and push operations.
* New management command to add suggestions from command-line.
* Added support for merging comments on file upload.
* Added support for some GNU extensions to C printf format.
* Documentation improvements.
* Added support for generating translator credits.
* Added support for generating contributor stats.
* Site wide search can search only in one language.
* Improve quality checks for Armenian.
* Support for starting translation components without existing translations.
* Support for adding new translations in Qt TS.
* Improved support for translating PHP files.
* Performance improvements for quality checks.
* Fixed site wide search for failing checks.
* Added option to specify source language.
* Improved support for XLIFF files.
* Extended list of options for import_project.
* Improved targeting for whiteboard messages.
* Support for automatic translation across projects.
* Optimized fulltext search index.
* Added management command for auto translation.
* Added placeables highlighting.
* Added keyboard shortcuts for placeables, checks and machine translations.
* Improved translation locking.
* Added quality check for AngularJS interpolation.
* Added extensive group based ACLs.
* Clarified terminology on strings needing edit (formerly fuzzy).
* Clarified terminology on strings needing action and untranslated strings.
* Support for Python 3.
* Dropped support for Django 1.7.
* Dropped dependency on msginit for creating new gettext PO files.
* Added configurable dashboard views.
* Improved notifications on parse errors.
* Added option to import components with duplicate name to import_project.
* Improved support for translating PHP files.
* Added XLIFF export for dictionary.
* Added XLIFF and gettext PO export for all translations.
* Documentation improvements.
* Added support for configurable automatic group assignments.
* Improved adding of new translations.

Weblate 2.4
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Sep 20th 2015.

* Improved support for PHP files.
* Ability to add ACL to anonymous user.
* Improved configurability of import_project command.
* Added CSV dump of history.
* Avoid copy/paste errors with whitespace characters.
* Added support for Bitbucket webhooks.
* Tighter control on fuzzy strings on translation upload.
* Several URLs have changed, you might have to update your bookmarks.
* Hook scripts are executed with VCS root as current directory.
* Hook scripts are executed with environment variables describing current component.
* Add management command to optimize fulltext index.
* Added support for error reporting to Rollbar.
* Projects now can have multiple owners.
* Project owners can manage themselves.
* Added support for ``javascript-format`` used in gettext PO.
* Support for adding new translations in XLIFF.
* Improved file format autodetection.
* Extended keyboard shortcuts.
* Improved dictionary matching for several languages.
* Improved layout of most of pages.
* Support for adding words to dictionary while translating.
* Added support for filtering languages to be managed by Weblate.
* Added support for translating and importing CSV files.
* Rewritten handling of static files.
* Direct login/registration links to third-party service if that's the only one.
* Commit pending changes on account removal.
* Add management command to change site name.
* Add option to configure default committer.
* Add hook after adding new translation.
* Add option to specify multiple files to add to commit.

Weblate 2.3
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on May 22nd 2015.

* Dropped support for Django 1.6 and South migrations.
* Support for adding new translations when using Java Property files.
* Allow to accept suggestion without editing.
* Improved support for Google OAuth 2.0.
* Added support for Microsoft .resx files.
* Tuned default robots.txt to disallow big crawling of translations.
* Simplified workflow for accepting suggestions.
* Added project owners who always receive important notifications.
* Allow to disable editing of monolingual template.
* More detailed repository status view.
* Direct link for editing template when changing translation.
* Allow to add more permissions to project owners.
* Allow to show secondary language in Zen mode.
* Support for hiding source string in favor of secondary language.

Weblate 2.2
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Feb 19th 2015.

* Performance improvements.
* Fulltext search on location and comments fields.
* New SVG/JavaScript-based activity charts.
* Support for Django 1.8.
* Support for deleting comments.
* Added own SVG badge.
* Added support for Google Analytics.
* Improved handling of translation filenames.
* Added support for monolingual JSON translations.
* Record component locking in a history.
* Support for editing source (template) language for monolingual translations.
* Added basic support for Gerrit.

Weblate 2.1
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Dec 5th 2014.

* Added support for Mercurial repositories.
* Replaced Glyphicon font by Awesome.
* Added icons for social authentication services.
* Better consistency of button colors and icons.
* Documentation improvements.
* Various bugfixes.
* Automatic hiding of columns in translation listing for small screens.
* Changed configuration of filesystem paths.
* Improved SSH keys handling and storage.
* Improved repository locking.
* Customizable quality checks per source string.
* Allow to hide completed translations from dashboard.

Weblate 2.0
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on Nov 6th 2014.

* New responsive UI using Bootstrap.
* Rewritten VCS backend.
* Documentation improvements.
* Added whiteboard for site wide messages.
* Configurable strings priority.
* Added support for JSON file format.
* Fixed generating mo files in certain cases.
* Added support for GitLab notifications.
* Added support for disabling translation suggestions.
* Django 1.7 support.
* ACL projects now have user management.
* Extended search possibilities.
* Give more hints to translators about plurals.
* Fixed Git repository locking.
* Compatibility with older Git versions.
* Improved ACL support.
* Added buttons for per language quotes and other special characters.
* Support for exporting stats as JSONP.
