Weblate 3.x series
------------------

Weblate 3.11.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on March 11th 2020.

* Fixed searching for fields with certain priority.
* Fixed predefined query for recently added strings.
* Fixed searching returning duplicate matches.
* Fixed notifications rendering in Gmail.
* Fixed reverting changes from the history.
* Added links to events in digest notifications.
* Fixed email for account removal confirmation.
* Added support for Slack authentication in Docker container.
* Avoid sending notifications for not subscribed languages.
* Include Celery queues in performance overview.
* Fixed documentation links for add-ons.
* Reduced false negatives for unchanged translation check.
* Raised bleach dependency to address CVE-2020-6802.
* Fixed listing project level changes in history.
* Fixed stats invalidation in some corner cases.
* Fixed searching for certain string states.
* Improved format string checks behavior on missing percent.
* Fixed authentication using some third party providers.

Weblate 3.11.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on February 22nd 2020.

* Fixed rendering of suggestions.
* Fixed some strings wrongly reported as having no words.

Weblate 3.11.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on February 20th 2020.

* Documented Celery setup changes.
* Improved filename validation on component creation.
* Fixed minimal versions of some dependencies.
* Fixed adding groups with certain Django versions.
* Fixed manual pushing to upstream repository.
* Improved glossary matching.

Weblate 3.11
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on February 17th 2020.

* Allow using VCS push URL during component creation via API.
* Rendered width check now shows image with the render.
* Fixed links in notifications e-mails.
* Improved look of plaintext e-mails.
* Display ignored checks and allow to make them active again.
* Display nearby keys on monolingual translations.
* Added support for grouping string shapings.
* Recommend upgrade to new Weblate versions in the system checks.
* Provide more detailed analysis for duplicate language alert.
* Include more detailed license info on the project pages.
* Automatically unshallow local copies if needed.
* Fixed download of strings needing action.
* New alert to warn about using the same file mask twice.
* Improve XML placeables extraction.
* The :setting:`SINGLE_PROJECT` can now enforce redirection to chosen project.
* Added option to resolve comments.
* Added bulk editing of flags.
* Added support for :ref:`labels`.
* Added bulk edit add-on.
* Added option for :ref:`enforcing-checks`.
* Increased default validity of confirmation links.
* Improved Matomo integration.
* Fixed :ref:`check-translated` to correctly handle source string change.
* Extended automatic updates configuration by :setting:`AUTO_UPDATE`.
* LINGUAS add-ons now do full sync of translations in Weblate.

Weblate 3.10.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on January 18th 2020.

* Support for translate-toolkit 2.5.0.

Weblate 3.10.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on January 18th 2020.

* Add lock indication to projects.
* Fixed CSS bug causing flickering in some web browsers.
* Fixed searching on systems with non-English locales.
* Improved repository matching for GitHub and Bitbucket hooks.
* Fixed data migration on some Python 2.7 installations.
* Allow configuration of Git shallow cloning.
* Improved background notification processing.
* Fixed broken form submission when navigating back in web browser.
* New add-on to configure YAML formatting.
* Fixed same plurals check to not fire on single plural form languages.
* Fixed regex search on some fields.

Weblate 3.10.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on January 9th 2020.

* Extended API with translation creation.
* Fixed several corner cases in data migrations.
* Compatibility with Django 3.0.
* Improved data clean-up performance.
* Added support for customizable security.txt.
* Improved breadcrumbs in changelog.
* Improved translations listing on dashboard.
* Improved HTTP responses for webhooks.
* Added support for GitLab merge requests in Docker container.

Weblate 3.10
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on December 20th 2019.

* Improved application user interface.
* Added doublespace check.
* Fixed creating new languages.
* Avoid sending auditlog notifications to deleted e-mails.
* Added support for read-only strings.
* Added support for Markdown in comments.
* Allow placing translation instruction text in project info.
* Add copy to clipboard for secondary languages.
* Improved support for Mercurial.
* Improved Git repository fetching performance.
* Add search lookup for age of string.
* Show source language for all translations.
* Show context for nearby strings.
* Added support for notifications on repository operations.
* Improved translation listings.
* Extended search capabilities.
* Added support for automatic translation strings marked for editing.
* Avoid sending duplicate notifications for linked component alerts.
* Improve default merge request message.
* Better indicate string state in Zen mode.
* Added support for more languages in Yandex Translate.
* Improved look of notification e-mails.
* Provide choice for translation license.

Weblate 3.9.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on October 28th 2019.

* Remove some unneeded files from backups.
* Fixed potential crash in reports.
* Fixed cross database migration failure.
* Added support for force pushing Git repositories.
* Reduced risk of registration token invalidation.
* Fixed account removal hitting rate limiter.
* Added search based on priority.
* Fixed possible crash on adding strings to JSON file.
* Safe HTML check and fixup now honor source string markup.
* Avoid sending notifications to invited and deleted users.
* Fix SSL connection to redis in Celery in Docker container.

Weblate 3.9
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on October 15th 2019.

* Include Weblate metadata in downloaded files.
* Improved UI for failing checks.
* Indicate missing strings in format checks.
* Separate check for French punctuation spacing.
* Add support for fixing some of quality checks errors.
* Add separate permission to create new projects.
* Extend stats for char counts.
* Improve support for Java style language codes.
* Added new generic check for placeholders.
* Added support for WebExtension JSON placeholders.
* Added support for flat XML format.
* Extended API with project, component and translation removal and creation.
* Added support for Gitea and Gitee webhooks.
* Added new custom regex based check.
* Allow to configure contributing to shared translation memory.
* Added ZIP download for more translation files.
* Make XLIFF standard compliant parsing of maxwidth and font.
* Added new check and fixer for safe HTML markup for translating web applications.
* Add component alert on unsupported configuration.
* Added automatic translation add-on to bootstrap translations.
* Extend automatic translation to add suggestions.
* Display add-on parameters on overview.
* Sentry is now supported through modern Sentry SDK instead of Raven.
* Changed example settings to be better fit for production environment.
* Added automated backups using BorgBackup.
* Split cleanup add-on for RESX to avoid unwanted file updates.
* Added advanced search capabilities.
* Allow users to download their own reports.
* Added localization guide to help configuring components.
* Added support for GitLab merge requests.
* Improved display of repository status.
* Perform automated translation in the background.

Weblate 3.8
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on August 15th 2019.

* Added support for simplified creating of similar components.
* Added support for parsing translation flags from the XML based file formats.
* Log exceptions into Celery log.
* Improve performance of repository scoped add-ons.
* Improved look of notification e-mails.
* Fixed password reset behavior.
* Improved performance on most of translation pages.
* Fixed listing of languages not known to Weblate.
* Add support for cloning add-ons to discovered components.
* Add support for replacing file content with uploaded.
* Add support for translating non VCS based content.
* Added OpenGraph widget image to use on social networks.
* Added support for animated screenshots.
* Improved handling of monolingual XLIFF files.
* Avoid sending multiple notifications for single event.
* Add support for filtering changes.
* Extended predefined periods for reporting.
* Added webhook support for Azure Repos.
* New opt-in notifications on pending suggestions or untranslated strings.
* Add one click unsubscribe link to notification e-mails.
* Fixed false positives with Has been translated check.
* New management interface for admins.
* String priority can now be specified using flags.
* Added language management views.
* Add checks for Qt library and Ruby format strings.
* Added configuration to better fit single project installations.
* Notify about new string on source string change on monolingual translations.
* Added separate view for translation memory with search capability.

Weblate 3.7.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on June 28th 2019.

* Documentation updates.
* Fixed some requirements constraints.
* Updated language database.
* Localization updates.
* Various user interface tweaks.
* Improved handling of unsupported but discovered translation files.
* More verbosely report missing file format requirements.

Weblate 3.7
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on June 21st 2019.

* Added separate Celery queue for notifications.
* Use consistent look with application for API browsing.
* Include approved stats in the reports.
* Report progress when updating translation component.
* Allow to abort running background component update.
* Extend template language for filename manipulations.
* Use templates for editor link and repository browser URL.
* Indicate max length and current characters count when editing translation.
* Improved handling of abbreviations in unchanged translation check.
* Refreshed landing page for new contributors.
* Add support for configuring msgmerge add-on.
* Delay opening SMTP connection when sending notifications.
* Improved error logging.
* Allow custom location in MO generating add-on.
* Added add-ons to cleanup old suggestions or comments.
* Added option to enable horizontal mode in the Zen editor.
* Improved import performance with many linked components.
* Fixed examples installation in some cases.
* Improved rendering of alerts in changes.
* Added new horizontal stats widget.
* Improved format strings check on plurals.
* Added font management tool.
* New check for rendered text dimensions.
* Added support for subtitle formats.
* Include overall completion stats for languages.
* Added reporting at project and global scope.
* Improved user interface when showing translation status.
* New Weblate logo and color scheme.
* New look of bitmap badges.

Weblate 3.6.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on April 26th 2019.

* Improved handling of monolingual XLIFF files.
* Fixed digest notifications in some corner cases.
* Fixed add-on script error alert.
* Fixed generating MO file for monolingual PO files.
* Fixed display of uninstalled checks.
* Indicate administered projects on project listing.
* Allow update to recover from missing VCS repository.

Weblate 3.6
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on April 20th 2019.

* Add support for downloading user data.
* Add-ons are now automatically triggered upon installation.
* Improved instructions for resolving merge conflicts.
* Cleanup add-on is now compatible with app store metadata translations.
* Configurable language code syntax when adding new translations.
* Warn about using Python 2 with planned termination of support in April 2020.
* Extract special characters from the source string for visual keyboard.
* Extended contributor stats to reflect both source and target counts.
* Admins and consistency add-ons can now add translations even if disabled for users.
* Fixed description of toggle disabling ``Language-Team`` header manipulation.
* Notify users mentioned in comments.
* Removed file format autodetection from component setup.
* Fixed generating MO file for monolingual PO files.
* Added digest notifications.
* Added support for muting component notifications.
* Added notifications for new alerts, whiteboard messages or components.
* Notifications for administered projects can now be configured.
* Improved handling of three letter language codes.

Weblate 3.5.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on March 10th 2019.

* Fixed Celery systemd unit example.
* Fixed notifications from HTTP repositories with login.
* Fixed race condition in editing source string for monolingual translations.
* Include output of failed add-on execution in the logs.
* Improved validation of choices for adding new language.
* Allow to edit file format in component settings.
* Update installation instructions to prefer Python 3.
* Performance and consistency improvements for loading translations.
* Make Microsoft Terminology service compatible with current Zeep releases.
* Localization updates.

Weblate 3.5
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on March 3rd 2019.

* Improved performance of built-in translation memory.
* Added interface to manage global translation memory.
* Improved alerting on bad component state.
* Added user interface to manage whiteboard messages.
* Add-on commit message now can be configured.
* Reduce number of commits when updating upstream repository.
* Fixed possible metadata loss when moving component between projects.
* Improved navigation in the Zen mode.
* Added several new quality checks (Markdown related and URL).
* Added support for app store metadata files.
* Added support for toggling GitHub or Gerrit integration.
* Added check for Kashida letters.
* Added option to squash commits based on authors.
* Improved support for XLSX file format.
* Compatibility with Tesseract 4.0.
* Billing add-on now removes projects for unpaid billings after 45 days.

Weblate 3.4
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on January 22nd 2019.

* Added support for XLIFF placeholders.
* Celery can now utilize multiple task queues.
* Added support for renaming and moving projects and components.
* Include characters counts in reports.
* Added guided adding of translation components with automatic detection of translation files.
* Customizable merge commit messages for Git.
* Added visual indication of component alerts in navigation.
* Improved performance of loading translation files.
* New add-on to squash commits prior to push.
* Improved displaying of translation changes.
* Changed default merge style to rebase and made that configurable.
* Better handle private use subtags in language code.
* Improved performance of fulltext index updates.
* Extended file upload API to support more parameters.

Weblate 3.3
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on November 30th 2018.

* Added support for component and project removal.
* Improved performance for some monolingual translations.
* Added translation component alerts to highlight problems with a translation.
* Expose XLIFF string resname as context when available.
* Added support for XLIFF states.
* Added check for non writable files in DATA_DIR.
* Improved CSV export for changes.

Weblate 3.2.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on October 20th 2018.

* Remove no longer needed Babel dependency.
* Updated language definitions.
* Improve documentation for add-ons, LDAP and Celery.
* Fixed enabling new dos-eol and auto-java-messageformat flags.
* Fixed running setup.py test from PyPI package.
* Improved plurals handling.
* Fixed translation upload API failure in some corner cases.
* Fixed updating Git configuration in case it was changed manually.

Weblate 3.2.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on October 10th 2018.

* Document dependency on backports.csv on Python 2.7.
* Fix running tests under root.
* Improved error handling in gitexport module.
* Fixed progress reporting for newly added languages.
* Correctly report Celery worker errors to Sentry.
* Fixed creating new translations with Qt Linguist.
* Fixed occasional fulltext index update failures.
* Improved validation when creating new components.
* Added support for cleanup of old suggestions.

Weblate 3.2
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on October 6th 2018.

* Add install_addon management command for automated add-on installation.
* Allow more fine grained ratelimit settings.
* Added support for export and import of Excel files.
* Improve component cleanup in case of multiple component discovery add-ons.
* Rewritten Microsoft Terminology machine translation backend.
* Weblate now uses Celery to offload some processing.
* Improved search capabilities and added regular expression search.
* Added support for Youdao Zhiyun API machine translation.
* Added support for Baidu API machine translation.
* Integrated maintenance and cleanup tasks using Celery.
* Improved performance of loading translations by almost 25%.
* Removed support for merging headers on upload.
* Removed support for custom commit messages.
* Configurable editing mode (zen/full).
* Added support for error reporting to Sentry.
* Added support for automated daily update of repositories.
* Added support for creating projects and components by users.
* Built-in translation memory now automatically stores translations done.
* Users and projects can import their existing translation memories.
* Better management of related strings for screenshots.
* Added support for checking Java MessageFormat.

See `3.2 milestone on GitHub <https://github.com/WeblateOrg/weblate/milestone/36?closed=1>`_
for detailed list of addressed issues.

Weblate 3.1.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on July 27th 2018.

* Fix testsuite failure on some setups.

Weblate 3.1
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on July 27th 2018.

* Upgrades from older version than 3.0.1 are not supported.
* Allow to override default commit messages from settings.
* Improve webhooks compatibility with self hosted environments.
* Added support for Amazon Translate.
* Compatibility with Django 2.1.
* Django system checks are now used to diagnose problems with installation.
* Removed support for soon shutdown libravatar service.
* New add-on to mark unchanged translations as needing edit.
* Add support for jumping to specific location while translating.
* Downloaded translations can now be customized.
* Improved calculation of string similarity in translation memory matches.
* Added support by signing Git commits by GnuPG.

Weblate 3.0.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on June 10th 2018.

* Fixed possible migration issue from 2.20.
* Localization updates.
* Removed obsolete hook examples.
* Improved caching documentation.
* Fixed displaying of admin documentation.
* Improved handling of long language names.

Weblate 3.0
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released on June 1st 2018.

* Rewritten access control.
* Several code cleanups that lead to moved and renamed modules.
* New add-on for automatic component discovery.
* The import_project management command has now slightly different parameters.
* Added basic support for Windows RC files.
* New add-on to store contributor names in PO file headers.
* The per component hook scripts are removed, use add-ons instead.
* Add support for collecting contributor agreements.
* Access control changes are now tracked in history.
* New add-on to ensure all components in a project have same translations.
* Support for more variables in commit message templates.
* Add support for providing additional textual context.
