docs/formats/gettext.rst, before:

.. _gettext:

GNU gettext PO (Portable Object)
--------------------------------

.. index::
    pair: gettext; file format
    pair: PO; file format

Most widely used format for translating libre software.

Contextual info stored in the file is supported by adjusting its
headers or linking to corresponding source files.

.. seealso::

    * :doc:`../devel/gettext`
    * :doc:`../devel/sphinx`
    * `Gettext on Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gettext>`_
    * :doc:`tt:formats/po`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.authors`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.configure`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.customize`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.linguas`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.mo`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.msgmerge`

Showing source string change
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Weblate can extract previous source strings from the PO files if present and
show the string difference for strings needing editing based on that. To
include these, :program:`msgmerge` has to be executed with ``--previous`` and
the resulting PO file then contains lines such as:

.. code-block:: po

   #, fuzzy
   #| msgid "previous-untranslated-string"
   msgid "untranslated-string"
   msgstr "translated-string"

PO file header
++++++++++++++

The header of the PO file is automatically maintained by Weblate. Optionally it
can include :ref:`component-report_source_bugs` and
:ref:`project-set_language_team`.

The header comments also can be updated to contain author names using :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.authors`.

Line wrapping
+++++++++++++

The line wrapping mostly matches GNU gettext behavior. Both the wrapping
algorithm in the GNU gettext and the Unicode data the wrapping is based on
evolve which might cause differences in some corner cases.

The wrapping width can be configured using :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.customize`.

Generating matching MO files
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In case MO files are kept in the repository together with PO files,
:ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.mo` can be used to keep them up-to-date with PO
files.

Updating PO files from the POT file
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

:ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.msgmerge` can be used to update PO files from the
POT file, see :ref:`updating-target-files`.

.. _mono_gettext:

Monolingual gettext
+++++++++++++++++++

Some projects decide to use gettext as monolingual formats—they code just the IDs
in their source code and the string then needs to be translated to all languages,
including English. This is supported, though you have to choose
this file format explicitly when importing components into Weblate.

Example files
+++++++++++++

The bilingual gettext PO file typically looks like this:

.. code-block:: po

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "Monday"
    msgstr "Pondělí"

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "Tuesday"
    msgstr "Úterý"

    #: weblate/accounts/avatar.py:163
    msgctxt "No known user"
    msgid "None"
    msgstr "Žádný"

The monolingual gettext PO file typically looks like this:

.. code-block:: po

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "day-monday"
    msgstr "Pondělí"

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "day-tuesday"
    msgstr "Úterý"

    #: weblate/accounts/avatar.py:163
    msgid "none-user"
    msgstr "Žádný"

While the base language file will be:

.. code-block:: po

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "day-monday"
    msgstr "Monday"

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "day-tuesday"
    msgstr "Tuesday"

    #: weblate/accounts/avatar.py:163
    msgid "none-user"
    msgstr "None"


Weblate configuration
+++++++++++++++++++++

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Typical Weblate :ref:`component` for bilingual gettext            |
+================================+==================================+
| File mask                      | ``po/*.po``                      |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Monolingual base language file | `Empty`                          |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Template for new translations  | ``po/messages.pot``              |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| File format                    | `Gettext PO file`                |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Typical Weblate :ref:`component` for monolingual gettext          |
+================================+==================================+
| File mask                      | ``po/*.po``                      |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Monolingual base language file | ``po/en.po``                     |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Template for new translations  | ``po/messages.pot``              |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| File format                    | `Gettext PO file (monolingual)`  |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Commit message:

feat: Parameters for File formats (#15416)
* new Component.file_format_params field and format_params helper
* new labelled_multiwidget template
* only display applicable fields with JS
* add params for xml and yaml formats
* use file_formar_params to setup serialization
* use file format params to load bilingual update args
* migrating from addons to file_format_params
* pass file_format_params parameter to TranslationFormat.load for parsing customization
* only relevant file format params are stored in component
* comma typo fix
* not using direct foreign key assignment
* only create scoped addons in v5.5 and on
* refactor: update file format handling and migration logic for addons
* refactor: remove unused addons and update migration logic for file format parameters
* adjust addon tests
* use uv run in run migrate
* minor test fixes
* remove unused forms
* new list_file_format_params
* update documentation
* added support for XML file format params
* documentation update
* remove store_post_load signal and triggers
* improve test coverage
* fix migration errors
* use rst helper function in list_file_format_params
* documentation fixes
* fix mypy errors
* update store config with file_format_params
* additional mypy ignore
* Add missing whitespace

Co-authored-by: Benjamin Alan Jamie <benjamin@weblate.org>
Co-authored-by: Michal Čihař <michal@cihar.com>

docs/formats/gettext.rst, after:

.. _gettext:

GNU gettext PO (Portable Object)
--------------------------------

.. index::
    pair: gettext; file format
    pair: PO; file format

Most widely used format for translating libre software.

Contextual info stored in the file is supported by adjusting its
headers or linking to corresponding source files.

.. seealso::

    * :doc:`../devel/gettext`
    * :doc:`../devel/sphinx`
    * `Gettext on Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gettext>`_
    * :doc:`tt:formats/po`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.authors`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.configure`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.customize`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.linguas`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.mo`
    * :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.msgmerge`

Showing source string change
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Weblate can extract previous source strings from the PO files if present and
show the string difference for strings needing editing based on that. To
include these, :program:`msgmerge` has to be executed with ``--previous`` and
the resulting PO file then contains lines such as:

.. code-block:: po

   #, fuzzy
   #| msgid "previous-untranslated-string"
   msgid "untranslated-string"
   msgstr "translated-string"

PO file header
++++++++++++++

The header of the PO file is automatically maintained by Weblate. Optionally it
can include :ref:`component-report_source_bugs` and
:ref:`project-set_language_team`.

The header comments also can be updated to contain author names using :ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.authors`.

Line wrapping
+++++++++++++

The line wrapping mostly matches GNU gettext behavior. Both the wrapping
algorithm in the GNU gettext and the Unicode data the wrapping is based on
evolve which might cause differences in some corner cases.

The wrapping width can be configured using the ``po_line_wrap`` parameter, see :ref:`file_format_params`.

Generating matching MO files
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In case MO files are kept in the repository together with PO files,
:ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.mo` can be used to keep them up-to-date with PO
files.

Updating PO files from the POT file
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

:ref:`addon-weblate.gettext.msgmerge` can be used to update PO files from the
POT file, see :ref:`updating-target-files`.

.. _mono_gettext:

Monolingual gettext
+++++++++++++++++++

Some projects decide to use gettext as monolingual formats—they code just the IDs
in their source code and the string then needs to be translated to all languages,
including English. This is supported, though you have to choose
this file format explicitly when importing components into Weblate.

Example files
+++++++++++++

The bilingual gettext PO file typically looks like this:

.. code-block:: po

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "Monday"
    msgstr "Pondělí"

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "Tuesday"
    msgstr "Úterý"

    #: weblate/accounts/avatar.py:163
    msgctxt "No known user"
    msgid "None"
    msgstr "Žádný"

The monolingual gettext PO file typically looks like this:

.. code-block:: po

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "day-monday"
    msgstr "Pondělí"

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "day-tuesday"
    msgstr "Úterý"

    #: weblate/accounts/avatar.py:163
    msgid "none-user"
    msgstr "Žádný"

While the base language file will be:

.. code-block:: po

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "day-monday"
    msgstr "Monday"

    #: weblate/media/js/bootstrap-datepicker.js:1421
    msgid "day-tuesday"
    msgstr "Tuesday"

    #: weblate/accounts/avatar.py:163
    msgid "none-user"
    msgstr "None"


Weblate configuration
+++++++++++++++++++++

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Typical Weblate :ref:`component` for bilingual gettext            |
+================================+==================================+
| File mask                      | ``po/*.po``                      |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Monolingual base language file | `Empty`                          |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Template for new translations  | ``po/messages.pot``              |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| File format                    | `Gettext PO file`                |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Typical Weblate :ref:`component` for monolingual gettext          |
+================================+==================================+
| File mask                      | ``po/*.po``                      |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Monolingual base language file | ``po/en.po``                     |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Template for new translations  | ``po/messages.pot``              |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| File format                    | `Gettext PO file (monolingual)`  |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------+


File format parameters
++++++++++++++++++++++

:ref:`file_format_params` with the pattern `po_*` can be used to configure the behavior of the gettext format.
