Backing up and moving Weblate
=============================

Backing up
----------

Depending on what you want to save, back up the type data Weblate stores in each respective place.

Database
~~~~~~~~

Where this is located depends on your database setup.

The database is the most important storage. Set up regular
backups of your database, without it all your translation setup will be gone.

Native database backup
++++++++++++++++++++++

The recommended approach is to do dump of the database using database native
tools such as :program:`pg_dump` or :program:`mysqldump`. It usually performs
better than Django backup and restores complete tables with all data.

You can restore this backup in newer Weblate release, it will perform any
necessary migrations when running in :djadmin:`django:migrate`. Please consult
:doc:`admin/upgrade` on more detailed information how to peform upgrade between
versions.

Django database backup
++++++++++++++++++++++

Alternatively you can backup database using Django's :djadmin:`django:dumpdata`
command. That way the backup is database agnostic and can be used in case you
want to change database backend.

Prior to restoring you need to be running exactly same Weblate version as was
used when doing backups. This is necessary as the database structure does
change between releases and you would end up corrupting the data in some way.
After installing the same version, run all database migrations using
:djadmin:`django:migrate`.

Once this is done, some entries will be already created in the database and you
will have them in the database backup as well. The recommended approach is to
delete such entries manually using management shell (see :ref:`invoke-manage`):

.. code-block:: console

   ./manage.py shell
   >>> from weblate.auth.models import User
   >>> User.objects.get(username='anonymous').delete()

Files
~~~~~

If you have enough backup space, simply backup the whole :setting:`DATA_DIR`. This
is safe bet even if it includes some files you don't want.
The following sections describe in detail what you should back up and what you
can skip.

.. _backup-dumps:

Dumped data for backups
+++++++++++++++++++++++

Stored in :setting:`DATA_DIR` ``/backups``.

Weblate dumps various data here, and you can include these files for more complete
backups. The files are updated daily (requires a running Celery beats server, see
:ref:`celery`).  Currently this includes:

* Translation memory dump, in JSON format.

Version control repositories
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Stored in :setting:`DATA_DIR` ``/vcs``.

The version control repositories contain a copy of your upstream repositories
with Weblate changes. If you have push on commit enabled for all your
translation components, all Weblate changes are included upstream and you
do not have to backup the repositories on the Weblate side. They can be cloned
again from the upstream locations with no data loss.

SSH and GPG keys
++++++++++++++++

Stored in :setting:`DATA_DIR` ``/ssh`` and :setting:`DATA_DIR` ``/home``.

If you are using SSH or GPG keys generated by Weblate, you should back up these
locations, otherwise you will loose the private keys and you will have to
regenerate new ones.

User uploaded files
+++++++++++++++++++

Stored in :setting:`DATA_DIR` ``/media``.

You should back up user uploaded files (e.g. :ref:`screenshots`).

Translation memory
++++++++++++++++++

Stored in :setting:`DATA_DIR` ``/memory``.

It is recommended to back up this content using
:djadmin:`dump_memory` in JSON-, instead of binary format, as that
might eventually change (and is also incompatible going from Python 2 to Python 3).
Weblate prepares this dump daily, see :ref:`backup-dumps`.

Fulltext index
++++++++++++++

Stored in :setting:`DATA_DIR` ``/whoosh``.

It is recommended to not backup this and regenerate it from scratch on restore.

Celery tasks
------------

The Celery tasks queue might contain some info, but is usually not needed
for a backup. At most your will loose updates that have not yet ben processed to translation
memory. It is recommended to perform the fulltext or repository updates upon
restoring anyhow, so there is no problem in losing these.

.. seealso::

   :ref:`celery`

Restoring
---------

1. Restore all data you have backed up.

2. Recreate a fulltext index using :djadmin:`rebuild_index`:

   .. code-block:: sh

      ./manage.py rebuild_index --clean --all

3. Restore your :ref:`translation-memory` using :djadmin:`import_memory`.

   .. code-block:: sh

         ./manage.py import_memory memory.json

4. Update all repositories using :djadmin:`updategit`.

   .. code-block:: sh

         ./manage.py updategit --all

Moving a Weblate installation
------------------------------

Relocatable your installation to a different system
by following the backup and restore instructions above.

.. seealso::

   :ref:`py3`
