docs/admin/customize.rst, before:

Customizing Weblate
===================

Extend and customize using Django and Python.
Contribute your changes upstream so that everybody can benefit. This reduces
your maintenance costs; code in Weblate is taken care of when changing internal
interfaces or refactoring the code.

.. hint::

   You can also customize Weblate look in :ref:`manage-appearance`.

.. warning::


   Neither internal interfaces nor templates are considered a stable API.
   Please review your customizations for every upgrade, the interfaces or their
   semantics might change without notice.

.. seealso::

   :ref:`contributing`

.. _custom-module:

Creating a Python module
------------------------

If you are not familiar with Python, you might want to look into `Python For
Beginners <https://www.python.org/about/gettingstarted/>`_, explaining the
basics and pointing to further tutorials.

To write a file with custom Python code (called a module), a place to store it
is needed, either in the system path (usually something like
:file:`/usr/lib/python3.12/site-packages/`) or in the Weblate directory, which
is also added to the interpreter search path.

.. hint::

   When :ref:`using Docker <docker-deploy>`, you can place Python modules in
   :file:`/app/data/python/` (see :ref:`docker-volume`), so they can be loaded
   by Weblate, for example from a :ref:`settings override file
   <docker-settings-override>`.

Better yet, turn your customization into a proper Python package:

1. Create a folder for your package (we will use `weblate_customization`).
2. Within it, create a :file:`pyproject.toml` file to describe the package:

   .. code-block:: toml

      [build-system]
      requires = ["uv_build>=0.8.18,<0.9.0"]
      build-backend = "uv_build"

      [project]
      name = "weblate-customization"
      version = "0.1.0"
      description = "Add your description here"
      requires-python = ">=3.13"
      dependencies = []

3. Create a folder for the Python module: :file:`src/weblate_customization`
4. Within it, create a :file:`__init__.py` file to ensure Python can import the module.
5. This package can now be installed using :command:`uv pip install -e`. More info to be found in `Editable packages documentation`_.
6. Once installed, the module can be used in the Weblate configuration
   (for example ``weblate_customization.checks.FooCheck``).

.. _Editable packages documentation: https://docs.astral.sh/uv/pip/packages/#editable-packages

Your package structure should look like this:

.. code-block:: text

    weblate_customization
    ├── pyproject.toml
    └── src
        └── weblate_customization
            ├── __init__.py
            ├── addons.py
            └── checks.py

You can find an example of customizing Weblate at
<https://github.com/WeblateOrg/customize-example>, it covers all the topics
described below.

Changing the logo
-----------------

1. Create a simple Django app containing the static files you want to overwrite
   (see :ref:`custom-module`).

   Branding appears in the following files:

   :file:`icons/weblate.svg`
       Logo shown in the navigation bar.
   :file:`logo-*.png`
       Web icons depending on screen resolution and web-browser.
   :file:`favicon.ico`
       Web icon used by legacy browsers.
   :file:`weblate-*.png`
       Avatars for bots or anonymous users. Some web-browsers use these as shortcut icons.
   :file:`email-logo.png`
       Used in notifications e-mails.

2. Add it to :setting:`django:INSTALLED_APPS`:

   .. code-block:: python

      INSTALLED_APPS = (
          # Add your customization as first
          "weblate_customization",
          # Weblate apps are here…
      )

3. Run :samp:`weblate collectstatic --noinput`, to collect static files served to
   clients.

.. seealso::

   * :doc:`django:howto/static-files/index`
   * :ref:`static-files`

.. _custom-addon-modules:
.. _custom-check-modules:

Custom quality checks, add-ons and auto-fixes
---------------------------------------------

To install your code for :ref:`custom-autofix`, :ref:`own-checks` or
:ref:`own-addon` in Weblate:

1. Place the files into your Python module containing the Weblate customization
   (see :ref:`custom-module`).
2. Add its fully-qualified path to the Python class in the dedicated settings
   (:setting:`WEBLATE_ADDONS`, :setting:`CHECK_LIST` or :setting:`AUTOFIX_LIST`):

.. code-block:: python

    # Checks
    CHECK_LIST += ("weblate_customization.checks.FooCheck",)

    # Autofixes
    AUTOFIX_LIST += ("weblate_customization.autofix.FooFixer",)

    # Add-ons
    WEBLATE_ADDONS += ("weblate_customization.addons.ExamplePreAddon",)

.. seealso::

   * :ref:`custom-autofix`
   * :ref:`own-checks`
   * :ref:`own-addon`
   * :ref:`addon-script`

Commit message:

docs: clarify custom machinery docs
Mostly adds missing crossreferences, but also clarifies the text.

docs/admin/customize.rst, after:

Customizing Weblate
===================

Extend and customize using Django and Python.
Contribute your changes upstream so that everybody can benefit. This reduces
your maintenance costs; code in Weblate is taken care of when changing internal
interfaces or refactoring the code.

.. hint::

   You can also customize Weblate look in :ref:`manage-appearance`.

.. warning::


   Neither internal interfaces nor templates are considered a stable API.
   Please review your customizations for every upgrade, the interfaces or their
   semantics might change without notice.

.. seealso::

   :ref:`contributing`

.. _custom-module:

Creating a Python module
------------------------

If you are not familiar with Python, you might want to look into `Python For
Beginners <https://www.python.org/about/gettingstarted/>`_, explaining the
basics and pointing to further tutorials.

To write a file with custom Python code (called a module), a place to store it
is needed, either in the system path (usually something like
:file:`/usr/lib/python3.12/site-packages/`) or in the Weblate directory, which
is also added to the interpreter search path.

.. hint::

   When :ref:`using Docker <docker-deploy>`, you can place Python modules in
   :file:`/app/data/python/` (see :ref:`docker-volume`), so they can be loaded
   by Weblate, for example from a :ref:`settings override file
   <docker-settings-override>`.

Better yet, turn your customization into a proper Python package:

1. Create a folder for your package (we will use `weblate_customization`).
2. Within it, create a :file:`pyproject.toml` file to describe the package:

   .. code-block:: toml

      [build-system]
      requires = ["uv_build>=0.8.18,<0.9.0"]
      build-backend = "uv_build"

      [project]
      name = "weblate-customization"
      version = "0.1.0"
      description = "Add your description here"
      requires-python = ">=3.13"
      dependencies = []

3. Create a folder for the Python module: :file:`src/weblate_customization`
4. Within it, create a :file:`__init__.py` file to ensure Python can import the module.
5. This package can now be installed using :command:`uv pip install -e`. More info to be found in `Editable packages documentation`_.
6. Once installed, the module can be used in the Weblate configuration
   (for example ``weblate_customization.checks.FooCheck``).

.. _Editable packages documentation: https://docs.astral.sh/uv/pip/packages/#editable-packages

Your package structure should look like this:

.. code-block:: text

    weblate_customization
    ├── pyproject.toml
    └── src
        └── weblate_customization
            ├── __init__.py
            ├── addons.py
            └── checks.py

You can find an example of customizing Weblate at
<https://github.com/WeblateOrg/customize-example>, it covers all the topics
described below.

Changing the logo
-----------------

1. Create a simple Django app containing the static files you want to overwrite
   (see :ref:`custom-module`).

   Branding appears in the following files:

   :file:`icons/weblate.svg`
       Logo shown in the navigation bar.
   :file:`logo-*.png`
       Web icons depending on screen resolution and web-browser.
   :file:`favicon.ico`
       Web icon used by legacy browsers.
   :file:`weblate-*.png`
       Avatars for bots or anonymous users. Some web-browsers use these as shortcut icons.
   :file:`email-logo.png`
       Used in notifications e-mails.

2. Add it to :setting:`django:INSTALLED_APPS`:

   .. code-block:: python

      INSTALLED_APPS = (
          # Add your customization as first
          "weblate_customization",
          # Weblate apps are here…
      )

3. Run :samp:`weblate collectstatic --noinput`, to collect static files served to
   clients.

.. seealso::

   * :doc:`django:howto/static-files/index`
   * :ref:`static-files`

.. _custom-addon-modules:
.. _custom-check-modules:
.. _custom-modules:

Custom quality checks, add-ons, automatic suggestions and auto-fixes
--------------------------------------------------------------------

To install your code for :ref:`custom-autofix`, :ref:`own-checks`,
:ref:`custom-machinery` or :ref:`own-addon` in Weblate:

1. Place the files into your Python module containing the Weblate customization
   (see :ref:`custom-module` or :ref:`docker-python-override`).
2. Add its fully-qualified path to the Python class in the dedicated settings:

   * :setting:`WEBLATE_ADDONS`
   * :setting:`CHECK_LIST`
   * :setting:`WEBLATE_MACHINERY`
   * :setting:`AUTOFIX_LIST`

.. code-block:: python

    # Checks
    CHECK_LIST += ("weblate_customization.checks.FooCheck",)

    # Autofixes
    AUTOFIX_LIST += ("weblate_customization.autofix.FooFixer",)

    # Add-ons
    WEBLATE_ADDONS += ("weblate_customization.addons.ExamplePreAddon",)

    # Automatic suggestion
    WEBLATE_MACHINERY += ("weblate_customization.machinery.SampleTranslation",)

.. seealso::

   * :ref:`custom-autofix`
   * :ref:`own-checks`
   * :ref:`own-addon`
   * :ref:`addon-script`
